NOAA: Global Bleaching Event Threatens World's Coral Reefs06:01

Play
October 08, 2015
Alice Lawrence, a marine biologist, assesses the bleaching at Airport Reef in American Samoa in February 2015. (XL Catlin Seaview Survey)
Alice Lawrence, a marine biologist, assesses the bleaching at Airport Reef in American Samoa in February 2015. (XL Catlin Seaview Survey)
This article is more than 5 years old.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) announced on Thursday that the world's coral reefs are in the middle of a dramatic bleaching event. That's when stressful environmental conditions kill off huge swaths of coral, leaving it bone-white and unable to support marine life.

It's only the third time in history that we've seen such an event, and it's potentially disastrous for the world's oceans. Mark Eakin, a marine ecologist and coordinator of NOAA's Coral Reef Watch program, talks with Here & Now's Jeremy Hobson about the coral bleaching, and says climate change is the culprit.

Most Viewed Stories
&quot;Notes From the Bathroom Line: Humor, Art, and Low-grade Panic from 150 of the Funniest Women in Comedy." (Courtesy)
'Notes From The Bathroom Line' Collection Showcases 150 Women Comedy Writers
Play
Here & Now11:04Mar 18, 2021
The Serendipitous Story Of How A Stray Dog Changed A Former U.S. Ambassador's Life
Play
Here & Now09:35Mar 15, 2021
Volunteers Walk With Chinatown Seniors In Oakland To Combat Anti-Asian Violence
Play
Here & Now05:11Feb 26, 2021
Pandemic Life Includes A Lot of Screen Time For Kids. Is It Time To Cut Back?
Play
Here & Now09:42Mar 18, 2021
Interview Highlights
What is a coral bleaching event?

“First I’ll explain what coral is because most people don’t realize they’re a plant, an animal and a mineral all at the same time. And that’s important because inside the tissues of this animal are microscopic algae that provide most of their food. When the water temp gets too high the photosynthesis - the production of energy by these little plant cells - actually starts to run too fast and they start to release toxins into the coral. As a method of survival the coral will eject the algae into the water and it leaves their tissues translucent so you can see right through to the skeleton underneath, which is white. So it looks like it’s bleached, it looks like it’s dead, the tissues are actually still alive but you have a sick coral that’s starving and more susceptible to disease.”


